it's no surprise that the most popular
controllers are first-party ones
especially the modern Xbox controller
and that makes a lot of sense it's a
premium controller with a comfortable
shape and it just works with all your
modern PC games and even with other
consoles like the Nintendo switch if you
get the right dongle but what is a
surprise is that in the dumpster fire of
Cheaper alternative controllers are some
downright excellent options with some of
them going for less than
$30 so we answered the title's question
already it's this because it's good but
what we haven't answered is what you
should be buying and that is a bit more
complicated unlike this simple segue to
our sponsor nexo whether it's niow
bonjour or hola the hello cam Pro from
nexo is a reliable upgrade to your
webcam setup thanks to its 1080p
resolution 60 FPS frame rate and windows
hello facial recognition pick it up at
the link in the video description
[Music]
before we get to our Alternatives have
you ever wondered why pretty much every
modern PC controller shares that same
familiar Xbox layout it turns out it's
for some good reasons one being it's
pretty ergonomic especially compared to
some of its ancestors but the bigger one
is xinput the xinput API will
automatically bind compatible
controllers to the right in inputs in
your favorite games and while it's less
versatile than the older D input
standard which is still used especially
for complex flight and racing rigs its
limitations because of the standard Xbox
layout allow it to be much more easily
implemented strangely enough the second
best-selling controller is the only D
input controller that we're going to see
today the ps5s Dual sense can it still
be used for PC games short answer yes
long answer yeah yes but it depends on
how much tinkering you want to do four
out of the five games that we tested
needed some kind of manual remapping now
there are wrappers like steam input or
DS for Windows that will wrap the D
input in an xinput container that should
fix these issues and in games where the
developers build in Native support for
the Dual Senses extra features it is one
of our favorite controllers especially
in games that heavily make use of the
d-pad we're going to have it and every
controller we recommended from this
video linked down below but enough about
controllers that cost almost a 100
loonies I said that there are great
controllers you guys are buying for $30
or less and this next one is not one of
them the Logitech f310 has remained
mostly unchanged since its release
in
2010 making it probably our best fit for
the title here because honestly guys why
is every everyone still buying this
controller it looks like a little
brother Edition for the PS2 and honestly
it feels like one too I mean is this
really the best that Logitech can come
up with I mean it's apparently kept at
least 25,000 of you reasonably happy but
look at the way the d-pad Jiggles and no
they like that they love
it I mean I guess if that's what you're
used to there's also the wireless
variant the f710 which is also pretty
fine if you like your controllers to
feel like a Brick In fairness The Price
is Right at just 20 and $40 respectively
and logitech's established reputation
for warranty service sets them apart
from many other competitors in this
price class I mean only the best will do
for billionaires who need to visit the
Titanic of course while we're combing
The Depths it's probably worth seeing if
we can find something a little better oh
here's a more recent top performer the
8bit do ultimate C has been sitting
among Amazon's best sellers pretty
consistently for months and is racking
up four and a half star reviews at an
incredible rate its MSRP is $30 with
frequent discounts down to just 20 bucks
and that is with a 2.4 GHz wireless
dongle I mean that puts this whole
package under the price of a Microsoft
first-party dongle alone so it must be
trash right I mean yeah Bo dude
everything about it feels pretty good
the shape is very similar to a regular
Xbox controller I mean the d-pads
nothing special but the face buttons
feel really good even the triggers have
a pretty satisfying feel to them and it
has an integrated battery for that price
that's something to consider guys
Microsoft does include batteries with
their controller but they're disposables
not rechargeables and this has USBC
charging with an integrated battery
right out of the box I'm not saying it's
the right choice for from a
sustainability standpoint I'm just
saying it is a value ad and wait what's
this I'm getting reports of a brand new
just released 8bit do ultimate 2C it
comes in new multi-tone colorways and no
way two extra shoulder buttons 1,000 HZ
pulling rate and hall effect analog
triggers and sticks meaning they should
remain Snappy and precise long into the
future guys this is a big upgrade so uh
how much more is it going to cost it's
the same
price same price so wait why would I
even buy that one the previous
generation 8-bit do controller that had
Hall effects was twice the price of the
regular one and the only other benefits
are Bluetooth and a charging dock they
kind of thought of everything the edges
are more round and comfortable in the
hand especially at the edge of the
shoulder and Trigger buttons the grip
texture is less abrasive and feels a
little less likely to collect a detailed
his hisory of every skin cell that ever
rubbed against it and while this spot
where the face meets the textured back
is a little bit on the sharp side that's
not a part of the controller that you
would ever naturally interact with the
d-pad still not a star player but darn
it they did put in some work to make it
feel more tactile and even the face
buttons feel just I don't know 8% more
tactile oh the bumpers are clicky now
dude I really like this thing it's even
clicker than the regular Xbox controller
which I may be bad or good depending on
your preference but I like it of course
I haven't actually played a game yet how
does it stack up for actual
gaming whoops
oh how does the controller feel oh right
the
controller controller feels good brother
really like the thumb sticks like the
thumb sticks a lot very little dead zone
I can't blame the thumbsticks for
everything that's happening right now
this is just hard
do you want to try same game with the
Logitech huh oh you want me to try the
other controllers that makes sense can't
say I'm thrilled about it but uh yeah
give me a sec dude I'm
still not that stoked on the uh on the
face buttons okay that's good to know
they're a little slow cuz in terms of
input latency the 2C with the receiver
was the lowest of everything we tested
it's less the input latency and it's
more how far they are to mash I just
find that I
I'm having a little bit of more
difficulty with them of course this the
only it's only the first one that I've
looked at so maybe just side by
side come on okay wait wait no we you've
tried this a 100 times with this one
let's try the other controller all right
maybe another controller is the
answer oh my God this analog
stick wow controller design has really
come a long way in the last 14 years
years
um maybe we just go d-pad here yeah test
what the people
say I me realistically I'm not doing any
worse I think the cold hard truth is I'm
just not that good at Super Meat Boy you
might have a little extra trouble with
this one this controller actually has
the highest tested input latency nothing
is too unusable this is 23.5
milliseconds so it's still within the
realm of that's okay yeah um but that's
more than four times more than the
2C come on come on come on come on oh no
way no way is the answer the Logitech
controller maybe it's the repetition of
doing it 100 times oh what are you doing
what are you
doing occasionally things will register
a little funny but no big complaints
it's oh it's really heavy actually it's
really heavy does it use dou battery
yeah yeah okay let's try a different
game okay try a different game while I
wait to fire up a racing game I can talk
Comfort I do find the slightly more
angled shape of the Xbox controller a
little bit more comfortable for broader
adult shoulders but if you like to kind
of have your elbows tucked in I can see
how this would actually be more
comfortable for you everyone I talked to
was really impressed at the build
quality of this but people with big
hands definitely find the Xbox
controller more comfortable for I think
the exact same reason you were saying
the angle and they feel the same way
about the 40 oz water bottle at LT
store.com it's just wider for bigger
hands than the 21 Oz you're 64 o yeah
yeah
okay now let's have a look at these
triggers said drifty oo very small dead
zones on the sticks do like isn't nice
you're quite sensitive to dead zones hey
I hate dead zones what's the point of
moving a stick if it's not registered
sir would you like a dead zone on your
mouse no well then why do you accept it
on your stick the thing is in racing
games a lot of the times you don't want
to over steer and having a big dead zone
can cause you to over steer and then
over steer the other way and then over
steer the other way any deficiency in my
performance here is 100% down to me not
being very good at racing games I cannot
blame the controller here like this
control is extremely fine go go on go on
get woo oh shoot I screwed it up I
screwed it up right at the end how could
I do this to
myself whatever I
Podium you want to try briefly with the
Xbox one yeah yeah yeah yeah let's hook
up the Xbox controller long story short
we had an issue pairing with our dongle
which normally is totally fine so I
don't know exactly what happened here
but I have a cable how do the sticks
feel in this not as good they're
sloppier triggers I honestly don't
notice a huge difference with I've never
been that sensitive to them but the
dicks on the Xbox controller they're not
terrible but they're not as good in my
humble observation we did test uh some
of the controllers for the circularity
of their analog sticks and the series
one was actually one of the worst ones
only the Logitech 310 was less circular
but the labs didn't have a high degree
of confidence cuz it might have just
been that specific Xbox controller they
tested question for you how many
controllers does 8 bit do support off of
a single dongle though I've never
checked
I think it's just one you can't repair
them I don't believe oh just one
controller to a dongle that's a bit of a
drawback especially when you consider
that the Xbox dongle supports up to
eight controllers off of a single dongle
and has some extra quality of life
features not to mention usually
excellent pairing reliability though it
should be noted that there is a latency
cost there we actually found that the
8bit do 2C had the same latency on
Bluetooth as the Xbox controller with
its 2.4 GHz dongle and partially thanks
to its 1000 HZ pulling rate absolutely
obliterated the Xbox in a like for like
test enough about the 2C though let's
switch back to the 1C and see if the 2C
is worth the extra $10 cuz so often this
can be had for just 20 bucks I'll be
honest with you it feels pretty good I
don't notice a big difference I'd say
it's possible the sticks are a little
bit looser but if they are it's not by
much and the biggest difference for me
that would make me still go with the 2C
is the fact that it has bluetooth
support it's just so convenient to not
have to worry about dongles dang what an
impressive controller but not everyone's
going to feel the same way if you've got
much larger hands or if you have an Xbox
and you want to move your controller
between that and your PC wirelessly and
seamlessly you might end up with a
different option but I find this just a
great balance of quality feeling d-pad
quality face buttons great ergonomics I
have a hard time imagining anyone who
would hate this and realistically I
could say the same about pretty much
everything in front of me except for the
f710 if you're looking at one of these
no stop it it's time to retire old man
and it's time for you to hear the Segway
to our sponsor manscaped if you need to
do some gardening down there why not do
it the luxurious way that's right their
illustrious lawnmower 5.0 Ultra now
comes in a shiny new coat of paint
forged gold has all the great features
of the regular models such as
interchangeable trimmer and foil blades
and an LED light to shine through the
Shrubbery but this time in gold and for
when you need to stay sophisticated and
stylish on the go the mower can come
along with you thanks to its portable
size safety travel log and a universal
USBC charging port there are limited
quantities available so act quickly
unlock the Golden Era of grooming with
the lawnmower 5.0 Ultra Gold Edition at
manscape.com lt20 and use code lt20 for
20% off and free shipping if you guys
enjoyed this video let us know which
controller you think everyone should be
buying and if you like gaming content
why not check out our console tier list
you may or may not like our rankings